---
layout: post
title: Close to the Metal
date: 2012-12-21
comments: false
---

I want to be close to the metal.

Over the past two years and a few months, I've really gotten quite into embedded
Linux and related systems.  I got hired by a local company (my current employer)
to be their embedded Linux guy and help make a product from the ground up.
It's been a lot of fun, I've learned a lot, and done tons of new things.

In the course of these past 2 years, I've grown fond of being close to the
metal.  I got my first patches into u-boot, developed a Linux SPI protocol
driver for our product, gotten the TPS65217 power button working on the
BeagleBone in Linux, and worked very closely with our hardware engineer to
define and debug the system I'm developing for.

I've done other things, too (like starting to learn Ruby on Rails then dropping
that for web services using FastCGI in C, there's orders of magnitude difference
in speed between those two), but I've not enjoyed the "other things" as much as
I've enjoyed working on u-boot, specifying and bringing up hardware, starting to
dig into writing Linux drivers, and being a part of the BeagleBoard.org
community.

Sure, making products is great.  But I've found I really enjoy simply doing the
low level engineering part of the job, taking some chips and making them work
together to allow for business goals to be achieved on top of them.  The actual
implementation of the business goals (web services, etc) isn't as fun for me.

I'd love to have a job where I get to be close to the metal more.  It's possible
that my current job can transform into that, I'm hoping I can make that happen.
I'm not as concerned about what kind of close to the metal work I get to do, but
if it was open source, that'd be a big plus.

If I could work on u-boot, Barebox, Linux, or dev kits as my main role, that'd
be really cool.  I want the projects I work on to be open source as there's a
huge number of very smart people out there who will critique my code and point
me in the right direction.  Learning from them, either by getting feedback or
just watching them work, is quite fun.

Overall, I'm hugely thankful for the opportunity to dive into embedded the way I
have.  My company, BeagleBoard.org, the Cross Linux From Scratch project,
u-boot, Linux, and Debian have all been awesome places for me to learn and grow.

I'm not sure how to end this.  So, thanks, if you've worked with me, helped me,
or simply made something that I've used to learn with.

I hope everyone has a great holiday.  See you next year!

