---
layout: post
title: Open Office Plans Suck
date: 2012-03-28
comments: false
---

Open office plans suck.

Cubes are only slightly better.

Private offices with doors are best.

In an open office plan or in a cube, I put my headphones on when I want to get
real work done.  I don't work optimally with music but I sure as heck work
better with music than with hearing other people talking about things that
aren't relevant to me.

If I had a real office with a door that closed and walls that went up to the
ceiling, I could close my door when I want to get real work done.  Then I won't
need my headphones and I can work optimally.  Other conversations will be
muffled to the point where I can't understand any talking I can hear and I
won't get distracted.

The closed door is also a sign.  It says, "I'm doing real work now.  Don't
bother me unless it's urgent."  If I'm not doing real work, I'll leave the
door open, feel free to interrupt me.

Non-real work includes answering email, searching the web, or
reading blogs related to something I'm interested in.  Real work includes
writing code, thinking about hard problems, reading technical papers or data
sheets, writing important documents, or testing things that might not work
correctly.  I don't want to be interrupted when I'm doing real work.

It's hard to put a price on the ability to do real work with a closed door.
Quantifying $X per year of output in order to justify the cost of building
real offices with real walls and real doors is difficult.  You can't do a
direct comparison with two different people, their abilities won't match.  You
can't stick me in an office for a year, measure my output, then stick me in an
open office plan and measure again and produce any kind of reasonable
comparison.  I won't be doing the same work (otherwise the second year better
be way more productive since I've already done it once!).

Real walls and a door can't cost more than a few thousand dollars.  Cube walls
will also cost a few thousand dollars, but possibly slightly less.  Yes, cube
walls are reconfigurable, but how often has anyone actually seen cubes get
reconfigured?  I've seen it once in the past 7 years, and if they hadn't been
reconfigured, no one would have cared (we moved 3 semi-cubes from one end of
the office to the other because they matched the furniture over there better).

If you're planning on rearranging your office, either give everyone real
offices with walls and doors or don't rearrange your office.  Save your money.
Nothing but offices with walls will be better than what you currently have,
so either build real offices or don't do anything and keep the money in the
bank.
